MARCH TWENTY SIX TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION TO ORDER
AND I'M GOING TO ASK MR.
CUMMINS TO PLEASE CALL THE ROLL
TO YOUR CARTER I'M HERE
COMMISSIONER OFMAN YES.
COMMISSIONER BILLUPS FOR
COMMISSIONER MILGROM
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS
COMMISSIONER GREEN PEROVIC
COMMISSIONER HAYNES PRESENT
COMMISSIONER LEIKEN
COMMISSIONER FRANCES HERE COMES
A MEMBER SONG COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON YANCOAL.
THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO
MOVE A COUPLE
OF THINGS AROUND WITH OK WHEN
WE GET TO THE AGENDA WHICH IS
NOW I'M GOING TO MOVE A COUPLE
OF THINGS AROUND I THINK THAT
I'M GOING TO ASK THAT I'M GOING
TO ASK IF IF THERE'S APPROVAL
FOR THE AGENDA AS IT IS
PUBLISHED MAKE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA FOR THE
SECOND ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN
FAVOR IT IS APPROVED AND I'M
ALSO GOING TO ASK FOR APPROVAL
OF THE MINUTES FROM THE
FEBRUARY MEETING AND I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE.
>> I MAKE A MOTION THAT WE
APPROVE THE MINUTES.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE A SECOND SECTION?
ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR?
I IT IS APPROVED.
WE ARE GOING TO I GUESS WHAT
I'D LIKE TO DO IS SWITCH A
COUPLE OF THINGS AROUND BECAUSE
WE HAVE A SPECIAL GUEST WITH US
TODAY AND I'M GOING TO ASK
CHIEF ANDERSON TO PLEASE COME
FORWARD AND MEET XPATH.
WE ARE SO HAPPY TO HAVE YOU
WITH US.
YOU CAN STAND THERE.
YOU CAN YOU CAN.
THE FLOOR IS YOURS AND WE JUST
ARE HAPPY TO SEE YOU AND HAVE
YOU HERE THIS AFTERNOON.
>> WHAT'S HERE?
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
IT'S AN HONOR TO BE HERE AND I
WAS CERTAINLY LOOKING FORWARD
TO OUR POLICE DEPARTMENT
WORKING HAND-IN-HAND WITH OUR
COMMISSION.
THERE ARE MANY THINGS THAT WE
ARE DISCUSSING WITH RESPECT TO
US WORKING AS A COLLABORATIVE
PARTNER AND I'LL BE LOOKING
FORWARD TO YOU ALL REACHING OUT
TO US.
I BROUGHT A FEW PEOPLE HERE
WITH ME.
I HAVE LIEUTENANT DUNLAP WHO'S
HERE WITH ME AND ALSO
LIEUTENANT COREY MILLS IS SO IT
IS MY INTENT TO BE HERE AT THE
MEETINGS TO LEARN WHO YOU ALL
AND WORK AS A COLLABORATIVE
PARTNER AND THANK YOU FOR
INVITING AGAIN.
WE'RE SO WE'RE SO HAPPY HERE,
LIEUTENANT.
WE ARE CERTAINLY FAMILIAR WITH
I THINK WE HAVE AT LEAST ONE
MEETING SET UP ALREADY WITH
LIEUTENANT DUNLAP AND I'VE BEEN
TELLING LIEUTENANT COREY THAT
WE'RE GOING TO GET WITH HIM AND
I KNOW HE'S THINKING I FORGOT
BUT I HAVE IT SO WE'RE SO ARE
THERE ANY WE'RE GOING TO INVITE
AND AN INVITATION IS GOING TO
GO OUT BUT WE ARE GOING TO BE
INVITING WE'LL SEE IT RIGHT.
>> THE COMMUNITY KNOW THE CHIEF
THE CHIEF.
>> WE ARE INVITING YOU, CHIEF
ANDERSON, TO MEET THE ANAMBRA
COMMUNITY.
WONDERFUL.
AND THAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN ON
APRIL TWENTY THIRD AND IT'S
GOING TO BE YES.
>> DO WE KNOW YET?
WE DON'T KNOW.
OK, BUT WITH THE IT'S THAT
GOING TO BE UNFORTUNATELY WE
DON'T EVEN HAVE COUNCIL
CHAMBERS FOR THAT DAY.
THERE'S SOMETHING ELSE GOING ON
HERE AND SO BUT WE WILL HAVE A
VENUE AND INVITATION SHOULD BE
GOING OUT IN THE NEXT DAY OR SO
.
THANK YOU.
IT'S GOING TO BE A PLEASURE.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO IT AND
I'M SURE MY STAFF IS LOOKING
FORWARD TO IT AND AGAIN WE ARE
WILLING AND READY TO WORK
COLLABORATIVELY.
>> WELL WE WANT TO WE'RE HOPING
YOU BRING AS MANY OF YOUR STAFF
AND THAT THE DETECTIVES AND THE
OFFICERS AND JUST BRING THEM
OUT.
WE'RE HOPING TO HAVE SEVERAL
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENTS WITH THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT SO WE'RE
REALLY HAPPY ANY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS OR ANYTHING OR.
YES, COMMISSIONER, I WAS
SWEARING IN.
VERY NICE.
OH, I JUST HAVE ONE QUESTION.
>> YOU GET YOUR UNIFORM.
YEAH, I HAVE GRAVELING.
THANK YOU FOR ASKING ME.
STAFF DID A GREAT JOB GETTING
THEM BUT THEY WEREN'T READY AT
THAT TIME SO GOOD GOOD.
>> DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS AT THIS POINT I KNOW
WE ALL WANT TO JUST SHAKE YOUR
HAND AND AND TALK TO YOU.
>> COULD I GO BY AND DO THAT
NOW THEY'LL BE JUST FINE THANK
YOU
JANMOHAMED ON CHIEF AND
THEN YES
PRESENTATION.
YES OK WE IT IN PUBLIC.
YES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU FOR COMING TO MEET
THIS EVENING AND THANK YOU
LIEUTENANT MILLS LIEUTENANT
DUNLAP FOR COMING.
THANK YOU.
OK NOW I'M GOING TO ASK THIS IS
OUR TIME FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
PUBLIC COMMENT IS LIMITED TO
THREE MINUTES AND FIRST I'M
GOING TO ASK MISS CUMMINGS IF
THERE'S ANYONE ON THE PHONE WE
DO HAVE A CALLER ON THE PHONE
IS CALLING IN.
I ALLOWED THEM TO SPEAK TO SEE
THEIR OK
CALLER ENDING IN ZERO
ZERO ZERO ARE YOU HERE FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT
WHEN WE GOT OUR
CALLER ARE YOU ARE YOU ABLE TO
CALL IF YOU ARE YOU ARE YOU
ALL
RIGHT?
OK, MAYBE THEY CAN HOOK YOU
LATER.
>> IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT HERE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF THIS OPPORTUNITY
FOR A PUBLIC COMMENT?
IF SO, PLEASE COME FORWARD
.
OK, THANK YOU
>> NEXT ON THE AGENDA IS A
REPORT FROM THE CHAIR AND I DO
HAVE A COUPLE OF THINGS.
FIRST OF ALL, UNFORTUNATELY
THERE WAS ANOTHER POLICE
OFFICER KILLED YESTERDAY IN NEW
YORK CITY.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF YOU ALL
HEARD ABOUT THAT WHERE THEY
WALKED UP ON A CAR THAT
SUPPOSEDLY WAS PARKED IN A BUS
STOP AND THE PERSON SHOT THAT I
GUESS THEY WERE TRYING TO GET
HIM OUT OF THE CAR AND WOUND UP
SHOOTING AND KILLING THE
OFFICER.
SO WE KNOW THAT THIS IS A
DANGEROUS JOB AND IT ALSO
DEMONSTRATES THE DANGER EVERY
TIME THERE'S A VEHICLE STOP.
>> OK, FIRST BUT I'D LIKE YOU
ALL TO LOOK AT IS THE NACOLE
AND THEN OF COURSE WE ALL
TALKED ABOUT NACOLE AND THAT'S
A NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR
CIVILIAN OVERSIGHT OF LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
AND WHAT I'M PASSING OUT TO YOU
NOW IS THE NACOLE CODE OF
ETHICS AND ON THE LAST PAGE
OF THIS DOCUMENT YOU WILL SEE
ALL OF THE OVERSIGHT AGENCY
THAT HAVE ADOPTED THE NACOLE
CODE OF ETHICS AND I'M NOT IT'S
NOT VERY LONG BUT I'M NOT
ASKING YOU TO READ IT AT THIS
POINT BUT AT OUR NEXT MEETING
WHICH PROBABLY WON'T BE THE
APRIL MEETING BUT PROBABLY THE
MAIN MEETING I WOULD LIKE SOME
FEEDBACK IF YOU HAVE HAD A
CHANCE TO LOOK AT THIS AND
THINK THAT IT IS A VALUE FOR
THE ANN ARBOR OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION TO ADOPT THIS
CODE OF ETHICS FOR WHAT WE DO
AND SOME OF US DID GO TO NACOLE
AND BY THE WAY, DO WE KNOW YET,
MISS CUMMINGS, WHAT THE DATE
IS?
I THINK I KNOW IT'S THAT IT'S
MID OCTOBER FOR THIS UPCOMING
YEAR IN OCTOBER IT'LL BE IN
ARIZONA.
THE REGISTRATION FOR THE
CONFERENCE IS NOT OPEN YET BUT
ONCE IT DOES HAVE TO SHARE WITH
THE COMMISSION, ARE ALL OF US
REGISTERED FOR NACOLE FOR THE
WEBINARS THAT PERIODIC COME UP
THOSE WHO HAVE EXPRESSED
INTEREST IN RECEIVING THOSE
NOTIFICATIONS HAVE BEEN LISTED
ON THE EMAIL LIST.
THOSE WHO HAVE NOT AACAP.
SO IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN
BEING PUT ON THE EMAIL LIST
JUST MAYBE AFTER THE MEETING IN
COLLEGE OK SO PLEASE TAKE A
LOOK AT THIS OVER THE NEXT NEXT
LITTLE WHILE.
WE ARE OF COURSE AND A REVIEW
COMMISSION.
THERE ARE DIFFERENT TYPES
OF COMMISSIONS AND WE TALKED
ABOUT THAT AT THE LAST NACOLE
CONFERENCE SO WE REVIEW WHAT
HAS BEEN DONE BY THE DEPARTMENT
AND I THINK I'D LIKE TO HAVE
THIS DISCUSSION ON THE CODE OF
ETHICS AT THE NEXT TIME WE ARE
ABLE TO DO THAT.
OK, NEXT
AS YOU KNOW AND I KNOW
THAT COUNCIL PERSON HARRISON
HAS BEEN TRYING TO CATCH ME AND
I HAVE BEEN RUNNING BUT I'VE
BEEN OUT OF TOWN.
WE DO WANT TO GET THE
RESOLUTION REGARDING TRAFFIC
TRANSPARENCY BEFORE COUNCIL NOW
DR. COPPOCK, I PLANTED TO SHARE
YOUR YOUR NOTATIONS WITH
EVERYONE AND I'M ASSUMING THAT
THAT'S FINE WITH YOU.
>> SO I ASK THAT TO KARPIAK TO
LOOK AT THE RESOLUTION THAT WE
THOUGHT HAD BEEN PASSED AND TO
GIVE SOME COMMENTS AS TO
WHETHER WHAT WE HAD BEFORE
IS
WHAT HE WOULD NEED TO DO.
>> A FOLLOW UP OF COURSE WE
WANT TO SEE WHAT THE THE
DRIVING ORDINANCE WHAT IF
ANYTHING IT HAD WHAT EFFECT MAY
HAVE HAD AND IN THE LITTLE
CIRCLES YOU'LL SEE THE THE
COMMENTS THAT THAT DR. KARPIAK
GAVE BECAUSE WHAT WE WANT TO DO
ONCE WE KNOW EXACTLY WHAT WE
NEED, WE'RE GOING TO SEND IT TO
THE DEPARTMENT AND SAY, YOU
KNOW, THIS IS WHAT WE NEED AND
GET FEEDBACK FROM THEM AND THEN
GO TO THE COUNCIL.
SO DOES THAT MAKE SENSE,
COMMISSIONER HARRISON?
YES.
OK TO DO IT THAT WAY.
>> YES.
OK, SO AGAIN TAKE A LOOK AT
THIS.
IS EVERYBODY NOW GETTING CITY
EMAILS?
YOU ARE GETTING YOURS OK
BECAUSE I'D LIKE TO CORRESPOND
BY EMAIL WITH REGARD TO THESE
SPECIFIC POINTS SO WE CAN HAVE
A DRAFT IN THE NEXT COUPLE
OF WEEKS.
OK, NEXT WE'RE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT THE TERMS FOR OUR
COMMISSIONERS THAT WAS BROUGHT
UP AS A REQUEST AND I
UNDERSTAND COMMISSIONER OFMAN
THAT YOU HAVE YOU ALREADY
FILLED OUT YOUR APPLICATION FOR
AN OK SO YOU'RE ALL SET BY
MOZART AND THE THE ISSUE WAS
WELL THERE WERE ACTUALLY TWO
ISSUES BECAUSE I THINK
COMMISSIONER OFMAN WAS WHEN THE
COMMISSIONER WAS INITIALLY SET
UP SOME OF THE SOME OF THE
TERMS WERE SHORTER AND LONGER
AND I THINK YOU TOOK SOMEONE'S
SOMEONE ELSE'S ONE TERM AND YOU
HAD TWO TO TWO YEARS.
I'M OF THE ORIGINAL MEMBERS BUT
MY FIRST TERM WAS TWO YEARS TWO
AND THEN I APPLIED FOR ANOTHER
TERM WHICH IS THREE YEARS OR SO
IN TOTAL BY THE END OF THIS
YEAR LIKE ME I WOULD HAVE
ACCUMULATED FIVE YEARS, FIVE
YEARS OR SO.
>> YOU'RE ELIGIBLE FOR ANOTHER
THREE YEAR TERM?
>> WELL, THE QUESTION IS OVER
HERE IN THE AUDIENCE I THINK,
UH, PAGE FOUR ITEM NUMBER FIVE
IT IS I'M READING IT UH TERM
LIMIT NO PERSON SERVING ON THE
COMMISSION CONTINUOUSLY FOR SIX
YEARS SHALL BE ELIGIBLE TO
REAPPOINT TO REAPPOINTMENT
UNTIL THE LAPSE OF THREE YEARS
.
I THINK THIS IS A PART THAT WE
NEED PROBABLY TO SUGGEST SOME
KIND OF CHANGES BECAUSE UM, THE
FIRST FEW YEARS WAS BASICALLY,
UH, A BUILD UP OF OF THE BASICS
OF THE COMMISSION.
WE DID NOT HAVE ANY OTHER VENUE
WHERE WE COULD REACH OUT TO TO
HELP US WITH THAT AND COVID
CAME AND ALSO PUSHED EVERYTHING
ON THE BACK BURNER.
SO I FEEL THAT NOW WE ARE
SEEING THE LIGHT AT THE END
OF THE TUNNEL.
WE FEEL THAT WE ARE SOMEHOW
PAVE THE WAY THAT WE UNDERSTAND
THE PROCESS AND TOOK A LONG
TIME AND IF WE ARE GOING TO SAY
WELL YOU KNOW NOW YOU ARE
BECOMING LITERATE AND YOU
GRADUATE WELL THE EXPERIENCE IS
GOING TO BE LOST.
SO I FEEL THAT PROBABLY WE NEED
TO REVISIT THE TERM LIMIT AND
NOT USE THE EXPERIENCE OF THE
MEMBERS OF COMMISSIONERS WHO
HAD WORKED HARD TO REACH THE
POINT OF UNDERSTANDING THE
PROCESS AND SOMETIMES IT TAKES
A WHILE AND WE CERTAINLY VALUE
YOUR EXPERIENCE WITH THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS
PARTICULARLY SO THAT
APPLICATION HAS BEEN SUBMITTED
I THINK AS IN MY COMMENTS.
>> OK, SO THE SECOND ISSUE IS
WE ARE ONLY WE ARE ONE OF MAYBE
A COUPLE I UNDERSTAND I HAVEN'T
RESEARCHED IT.
MY COMMENT WAS INFORMED THAT
WE'RE THE ONLY ONE BUT THERE
MAY BE ANOTHER COUPLE OF THE
WHAT THIRTY COMMISSIONERS IN
THE CITY THREE THAT HAVE TERM
LIMITS NOW I DON'T KNOW
COMMISSIONER HAYES, DO YOU DO
YOU REMEMBER IF IT WAS ANY
PARTICULAR REASON THAT IT WAS
DECIDED TO HAVE COMMISSIONERS
BE TERM LIMITED?
>> I HONESTLY CANNOT REMEMBER
IF IF WE HAD THAT DISCUSSION WE
WERE CONCERNED ABOUT STAGGERING
YEARS BUT THERE WAS NO MY
RECOLLECTION WAS NO THAT WE DID
NOT REALLY TALK ABOUT TERM
LIMITS AND WHY WHY WE HAD PUT
THAT IN THERE SO WHEN YOU ALL
THINK IS IT DO WE GO TO COUNCIL
AND SAY, YOU KNOW, ONCE
SOMEBODY KNOWS WHAT THEY'RE
DOING, YOU KNOW, ALMOST IT'S
TIME FOR THEM TO JUST TO STEP
OFF.
DO WE DO WE CARE ENOUGH?
I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
THAT DISCUSSION WE NEED TO KNOW
WHAT IT IS WE'RE GOING TO TAKE
THE COUNCIL SO YOU'VE BEEN ON
FOR FIVE YEARS IS WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING.
YES, OK.
AND SO NEXT YEAR WOULD BE THE
SIXTH YEAR AND YOU WOULD HAVE
TO STEP BACK FOR ANOTHER THREE
YEARS IF I'M REMEMBERING WHAT
WAS WRITTEN WAS IT AND I JUST
SPOKE WITH SOMEONE FROM FROM
THE CLERK'S OFFICE THIS IS WHAT
I WAS TOLD BECAUSE COMMISSIONER
OFMAN SERVED TWO YEARS OF HIS
FIRST TERM.
MM HMM.
AND THEN HE REAPPLIED FOR THREE
FOR A THREE YEAR TERM WHICH IS
COMING TO AN END.
HE HAS ONLY SERVED FIVE FIVE
YEARS SO HE HAS ONE MORE YEAR
NO DID WAS HIS FIRST TERM THREE
YEARS TWO YEARS IT WAS JUST TWO
YEARS.
>> BUT WAS IT SUPPOSED TO BE
THREE YEARS?
>> I THINK IT WAS PART OF THE
STAGGERING NO WE WERE PART
OF SICKROOM BECAUSE WHEN WE
STARTED SOME PEOPLE WERE GIVEN
THE FIRST TERM OF ONE YEAR OR
TWO OR THREE YEARS AND THEN
WHEN YOUR FIRST TERM ENDS YOU
CAN REAPPLY FOR NOW THE COMING
THREE YEARS.
SO ALL THE FROM THE FIRST TIME
FIRST STAGGERED.
SO WHAT THE CLERK'S OFFICE SAID
TO ME JUST A FEW MINUTES AGO
WAS THAT BECAUSE SINCE THE
ORDINANCE SAYS NO PERSON
SERVING ON THE COMMISSION
CONTINUOUSLY FOR SIX YEARS
SHALL BE ELIGIBLE FOR
REAPPOINTMENT UNTIL THE LAPSE
OF THREE YEARS.
>> SO BECAUSE HE HAD THEY ARE
NO LONGER DOING ANY PARTIAL
TERMS.
RIGHT.
SO BECAUSE HE HAD NOT SERVED
SIX YEARS, HE'S ELIGIBLE TO BE
REAPPOINTED FOR ANOTHER TERM
AND THE TERM WOULD BE THREE
YEARS.
SO GOING FORWARD THEN WILL ALL
OF US BE SERVING THREE YEAR
TERMS AND WE'LL THOSE THREE
YEAR TERMS BE STAGGERED OR WELL
WE'RE ALREADY STACKED OK?
WE'RE ALREADY STAGGERED.
SO I THINK THE ISSUE IS WHETHER
THIS IS SUBSECTION FIVE OF THE
ORDINANCE ARE CREATING
ORDINANCE WHICH SAYS NO PERSON
SERVING ON A COMMISSION
CONTINUOUSLY FOR SIX YEARS
SHALL BE ELIGIBLE FOR
REAPPOINTMENT.
DO WE DO WE WANT TO WE WANT TO
CHALLENGE DO WE WANT TO SAY YOU
KNOW, WE HAVE COMMISSIONERS WHO
WANT TO STAY AND WHO HAVE
VALUABLE EXPERIENCE.
>> SO I THINK THERE'S TWO
ISSUES.
THE FIRST ISSUE IS DID THE
STAGGERING COUNT RIGHT?
BECAUSE I WAS A PART OF THAT
FIRST GROUP AND I THINK I WAS
APPOINTED FOR THREE YEARS.
RIGHT.
SO DID THE STAGGERING COUNT AT
THAT POINT.
AND THEN THE OTHER THING IS THE
OTHER ISSUE WOULD BE SHOULD
THERE BE TERM LIMITS?
>> SO TWO SEPARATE ISSUES.
RIGHT.
AND IF OTHER COMMISSIONS DON'T
HAVE TERM LIMITS THEN FIGURING
OUT WHY WE DO HAVE TERM LIMITS
RIGHT.
UM, I THINK THERE'S ALWAYS
THERE COULD BE A GOOD REASON
FOR TERM LIMITS.
RIGHT.
BECAUSE BRINGING FRESH IDEAS
FRESH PEOPLE ON IS ALSO GOOD
FOR BUT I THINK THAT THOSE ARE
THE TWO ISSUES THAT WE NEED TO
GET CLEAR FROM THE CLERK'S
OFFICE OR FROM CITY COUNCIL.
YOU KNOW, FROM THE WRITING
OF THE ORDINANCE THAT IT WAS
WRITTEN SO WELL.
>> I'M WONDERING IN TERMS I
MEAN I THINK COMMISSIONER OFMAN
IS THE ONLY ONE OF US WHO CAME
WHO DID LESS THAN A THREE YEAR
INITIAL TERM.
>> RIGHT.
I THINK WHO'S LIVE I CAN'T
REMEMBER THE PREVIOUS CHAIR
JACKSON HAD THAT KIND SET UP.
I THINK THAT WAS ONE OF HER
TERM LIMITS OR SOMETHING BUT SO
I THINK THEY WERE JUST A FEW
PEOPLE.
BUT I THINK OF MYSELF,
COMMISSIONER HOFFMAN AND YOU
ARE THERE FOR ME MISS ME AND
COMMISSIONER ALDERMAN ARE THE
ONLY TWO ORIGINAL FROM WHEN THE
COMMISSION FIRST GOT STARTED SO
SO SO LATE.
WHAT IS YOUR PLEASURE?
DO WE LEAVE IT AS IS BECAUSE
THE INITIAL ISSUE I THINK IS IS
RESOLVED ACCORDING TO THE
CLERK'S OFFICE COMMISSIONER
OFMAN CAN REAPPLY FOR ANOTHER
THREE YEAR TERM.
SO SHALL WE JUST LEAVE IT FOR A
WHILE IF THAT SOLVE THAT
PROBLEM?
>> I THINK I'M GOOD WITH THAT.
I THINK THERE IS STILL THAT
QUESTION THE WHY DO WE HAVE
TERM LIMITS AND OTHERS DON'T
AND THAT'S OK.
I JUST WANT AN EXPLANATION FOR
THAT.
SO FROM WHAT I WAS INFORMED
WHEN THE CREATION OF EC PARK
WAS FORMED THE COMMUNITY GROUPS
THAT HELPED CREATE THE LANGUAGE
FOR BYELAWS CAME UP WITH A TERM
LIMIT FOR THIS COMMISSION'S
SPECIFIC THING.
I WAS NOT THERE WHEN THEY MADE
THIS DECISION TO INCLUDE IT BUT
THAT WAS A SPECIFIC CONVERSE
THAT THEY DECIDED TO INCLUDE
THAT LANGUAGE AND HAVE A POPCAP
TERM LIMIT AND BUT I ASKED
THAT'S WHY I ASKED MICHEL NAMES
AS I'M THINKING BACK ON THAT I
THINK THE REASONING WAS SO THAT
WE WOULD HAVE NEW FLESH, FRESH
BLOOD COMING IN ESSENTIALLY SO
THAT WE WERE NOT HAVING SOMEONE
THAT IS ON THE COMMISSION
FOREVER OR FOR AN EXTENDED
LENGTH OF TIME WITHOUT GIVING
THE COMMUNITY THE OPPORTUNITY
TO HAVE FRESH VOICES.
AND I THINK THAT'S STILL
IMPORTANT.
>> OK, IT WAS IT WAS THERE AN
UNDERSTANDING THAT MOST THE
COMMISSIONS DID NOT HAVE TERM
LIMITS?
>> THAT ONE I REALLY DON'T
REMEMBER THAT THE COMMISSION
WOULD LIKE TO CHANGE THAT
LANGUAGE IN THE ORDINANCE THEN
THAT WOULD NEED TO COME FROM
ONE OF THE COUNCIL MEETINGS
THIS MORNING.
MARC, TO BRING THAT UP TO CITY
COUNCIL TO TAKE IT TO THE CITY
COUNCIL SO THAT CAN BE CHANGED.
>> RIGHT.
SO THAT'S WHAT I'M TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT IF WE WANT TO DO
THAT OR IF WE WANT TO LEAVE
THINGS AS THEY ARE NOW BECAUSE
THE INITIAL ISSUE THAT BROUGHT
THIS UP HAS BEEN RESOLVED.
>> WHY DON'T WE THINK GO AHEAD,
COMMISSIONER GREEN AS A RULE, I
PERSONALLY AM NOT IN FAVOR OF .
HOWEVER, THIS COMMISSION IN
MIGHT BE USEFUL BECAUSE IT IS
IMPORTANT THAT WE DON'T HAVE
THE SAME PEOPLE MAKING THE SAME
DECISION, PARTICULARLY IF THEY
HAPPEN TO BE BAD DECISIONS.
SO THAT TURNOVER MAY BE USEFUL.
I GUESS THE QUESTION FOR ME IS
IS THAT GOING TO BE A A SIX
YEAR LIMIT OR SOMETHING?
I DON'T KNOW THAT BECAUSE THERE
IS VALUE IN HAVING EXPERIENCED
ALL THE COMMISSION AND IT TAKES
A WHILE TO GET THAT EXPERIENCE.
I WOULD SAY AT LEAST THREE OR
FOUR YEARS I WOULD PROBABLY
NEED ANOTHER TWO WOULD YOU KNOW
THE TWO OR FOUR YEARS JUST TO
BE EFFECTIVE.
>> SO SO THAT'S ANOTHER OPTION
TO TO ASK FOR THE THREE YEAR
TERM LIMIT AS OPPOSED CHANGE IT
FROM TWO TO THREE.
>> WHY DON'T WE WHY DON'T WE
SLEEP ON IT AND I'LL PUT IT ON
THE AGENDA FOR THE NEXT TIME
AND DECIDE WHAT WHAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO DO.
>> GO AHEAD.
I I'VE JUST BEEN SORT
OF RUMMAGING THROUGH THE
ORDINANCES HERE I FOUND OF THE
HISTORIC COMMISSION THE PUBLIC
MARKET ADVISORY COMMISSION, THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
COMMISSION AND THE HOUSING
BOARD COMMISSION ALL AFTER THEY
DO OK THAT THEY I THINK THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION DOES
NOT HAVE TERM LIMITS AND SO
THERE ARE SEVERAL THAT THAT DO
NOT SO OK.
BUT MY ONLY ISSUE IS IS THAT AS
WAS STATED IS THE EXPERIENCE
THAT WE ACCUMULATE BECAUSE WE
HAD TO DO THE GROUNDWORK FOR IT
AND THE THE OTHER ISSUE IS IF
WE LOOK AT THE COMMISSIONERS ON
THE TWO OF US WHO STARTED ARE
STILL IN EXISTENCE AND I
REMEMBER A TIME WHEN WE HAD
ONLY SIX COMMISSIONERS AND IF
ONE HAD NOT SHOWED UP WE THINK
THAT WE DID NOT HAVE A QUORUM.
SO IT'S NOT IT'S NOT LIKE THE
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE HERE
LIKE THEY WILL BE IN OFFICE.
NO, WE ARE NOT GOING TO DIE IN
OFFICE UNLESS GOVERNMENT FOR US
TO BUT BUT DEFINITELY THERE IS
A TURNOVER NATURAL TURNOVER SO
I THINK I THINK IF WE IF WE
HAVE THE ORDINANCE SOMEHOW
FLEXIBLE I DON'T THINK THERE
WOULD BE ANY ISSUE IN TERMS
OF PEOPLE JUST COMING OVER
SITTING AND THEY WILL BE THERE
BECAUSE I BELIEVE THAT THE
POLICE FORCE IS GOING TO
CHANGE.
THEY'RE THE NEW NEW RECRUITS,
YOUNGER ONES AND ALSO WE KNOW
THAT THE PROBABLY THE AVERAGE
AGE OF THE RESIDENTS OF THIS
TOWN IS UNDER THE AGE OF MAYBE
THIRTY THIRTY FIVE.
SO THEY HAVE THEIR OWN ISSUES
THAT THEY NEED TO BE ADDRESSED.
AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
WE PASS THE TORCH TO NEW BLOOD
NEW IDEAS TOO.
BUT AT LEAST FOR THE STABILITY
AND FOR THE EXPERIENCE IF WE
CAN MAINTAIN SOME DEGREE OF OF
YOU KNOW, WE ARE HERE AND WE
CAN REFLECT ON THE EXPERIENCE
THAT WE GOT THEN PASS TO
OTHERS.
SO WHEN PEOPLE COME THEY DON'T
HAVE TO INVENT EVERYTHING WILL
BE READY FOR THEM.
>> OK, VERY GOOD MR. HANS.
AND I'D LIKE TO STRESS THAT
WHEN WE WERE WRITING THIS
ORDINANCE WE WERE VERY
CONCERNED WE HAD A YOUTH ON THE
TASK FORCE AND WE WERE VERY
CONCERNED THAT THERE WAS YOUTH
REPRESENTATION ON THE
COMMISSION AND WE DON'T HAVE
THAT AND I'M WONDERING HOW WE
GO ABOUT MAKING THAT HAPPEN.
>> WE DO HAVE ONE APPLICANT FOR
THE YOUTH POSITION PER
APPLICATION JUST HASN'T I DON'T
KNOW HASN'T MADE WE WE DID
INTERVIEW HER AND APPROVED HER
AT THE INTERVIEW STAGE SO
HOPEFULLY THAT PERSON AND YOU
KNOW, LET ME JUST SAY AT THIS
POINT, YOU KNOW, I THINK PEOPLE
GET SICK OF ME BECAUSE I GO
AROUND HIM I'M A CARD AND
SAYING HEY, WOULD YOU LIKE A
BIT OF THIS COMMISSION AND WE
WE DON'T HAVE FOLKS BREAKING
DOWN OUR DOORS MAYBE IT'S
BECAUSE OF THE TIME COMMITMENT
OR THE SERIOUSNESS OF WHAT WE
DO.
I DON'T KNOW.
BUT IF ANYONE WATCHING ANYONE
IN THE AUDIENCE IS INTERESTED
AT ALL, WE CERTAINLY ARE
LOOKING FOR WE HAD ONE
COMMISSIONER WHO WAS NOT ABLE
TO CONTINUE AND SO WE HAVE A WE
HAVE A VACANCY SO OK, NEXT ITEM
I'M GOING TO PASS OUT THESE ARE
COPIES OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT AND
WE GOT SOME GOOD FEEDBACK ON
IT.
I WANT TO THANK EVERYONE WHO
CONTRIBUTE AND I WANT TO THANK
PARTICULARLY MISS KIM MORGANSON
WITH THE CITY WHO LAID THIS OUT
AND SHE JUST DID SUCH A
BEAUTIFUL JOB FOR US AND I'M
GOING TO HAVE SOME AFTER THE
MEETING IF ANYONE IN THE
AUDIENCE WOULD LIKE A COPY
OF OUR ANNUAL REPORT, I THINK
IT CAME OUT BEAUTIFULLY THIS
KENNEDY'S GRAPHS CAME OUT WELL
AND SO I THANK EVERYBODY FOR
THAT.
WE HAD SOME GOOD FEEDBACK AND
PEOPLE DID READ ONLINE.
IT IS ONLINE I THINK FINALLY
THERE'S THE ISSUE OF OUR OFFICE
PUBLIC OFFICE HOURS.
DID EVERYBODY GET A CHANCE TO
LOOK AT WHAT MISS KENNEDY HAD
COME UP WITH IN TERMS OF OUR
OFFICE HOURS AND I IF WHEN SHE
BROUGHT IT UP I SAID WELL WE
NEVER TALKED ABOUT IT.
YOU KNOW, WHETHER WE WANT
SPECIFIC OFFICE HOURS.
I'M JUST WONDERING DO WE HAVE A
LOT OF PEOPLE COMING CURRENTLY
RIGHT NOW?
NO.
AND JUST TO CLARIFY BECAUSE I
TOOK THIS OUT TO THE OTHER
CONDITIONS THAT I MANAGE AND I
JUST WANT TO CLARIFY THESE
OFFICE HOURS ARE SPECIFICALLY
FOR COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO COME
SPEAK TO ME ABOUT CONCERNS
RELATED TO POLICE OVERSIGHT IF
I'M ABLE TO BE A RESOURCE TO
THEM, PROVIDE THEM WITH THINGS
RIGHT AT HAND YOU ALL MAY NOT
BE ABLE TO DO DURING THE DAY
BECAUSE YOU ALL WORK.
I HAVE GOT THINGS GOING ON THAT
IS WHERE I STEP IN TO DO THAT
NOW IT IS A COMPLETE MATTER
THAT WILL STILL GO TO THE
REGULAR PROCESS OF GOING TO
INFORMATION MANAGERS AS WELL AS
PD TO INVESTIGATE AND REVIEW.
AND SO CURRENTLY NOW WE DON'T
HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE COMING.
HOWEVER, I DON'T KNOW IF THAT
IS DUE TO THE LACK OF AWARENESS
AROUND IT BE KNOWN THAT PUBLIC
OFFICE HOURS AND SO IN FRONT
OF YOU GUYS RIGHT NOW COPY
OF THE LANGUAGE THAT I'VE COME
UP WITH TO BE PLACED ON OUR
WEBSITE IF YOU HAVEN'T HAD A
CHANCE TO REVIEW THAT'S OK.
>> YOU CAN STILL EMAIL ME AND
LET ME KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANY
EDITOR CHANGES TO IT BEFORE THE
FINAL WORDING LAYOUT THINGS
LIKE THAT.
BUT THIS IS JUST WHAT I HAVE SO
FAR.
I'M OPEN TO FEEDBACK,
SUGGESTIONS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT BUT THIS IS JUST KIND JUST
KIND OF JUST A QUICK LAYOUT AND
YOU KNOW, EXPLANATION I EVEN
THOUGHT ABOUT INCLUDING SOME
LANGUAGE ON THERE THAT IS IF
YOU'RE UNSURE IF YOU NEED TO
SCHEDULE AN APPOINTMENT, STILL
CALL THE STAFF LIAISON BECAUSE
YOU KNOW, I STILL WANT THE
PUBLIC TO KNOW THEY CAN MEET
WITH ME IN PERSON.
THEY CAN SET UP A VIRTUAL
MEETING THAT WORKS BETTER FOR
THEM OR IF A SIMPLE PHONE CALL
WORKS WE CAN DO THAT AS WELL.
>> ANY QUESTIONS?
I'M NOT A QUESTION BUT OR MAYBE
A QUESTION TO THE CHAIR JUST
FOR CLARIFICATION.
WE A CITIZEN CAN MAKE A
COMPLAINT AND COME IN HERE,
MISS CUMMINGS, HELP THEM FILL
OUT THE COMPLAINT THEY NEED TO
KNOW.
RIGHT.
SO I THINK IN THAT CASE THIS IS
VERY HELPFUL FOR US TO BE ABLE
TO TELL PEOPLE WHEN THEY CAN DO
THAT.
I'VE HAD AT LEAST ONE PERSON
WHO WANTED TO MAKE A COMPLAINT
ABOUT POLICE AN ISSUE AND
SOMEBODY CALLED ME AND SAID
WHEN CAN THEY DO THIS?
AND I AND I DIDN'T KNOW FOR
SURE I GAVE THEM THE WEBSITE
BUT IT WOULD BE GOOD FOR ME TO
BE ABLE TO TELL THEM THEY COULD
ACTUALLY COME TO THIS OFFICE
DURING THIS TIME.
>> SO I THINK IT WOULD BE GREAT
WE ALSO HAVE HARD COPIES
OF SORRY I'M BEING TOLD TO MIKE
.
>> WE ALSO HAVE HARD COPIES
OF THE
COMPLAINT FORM.
SO IF PEOPLE WOULD LIKE TO COME
IN PERSON TO FILL IT OUT THEY
CAN DO THAT IF THEY WANT IT TO
BE EMAILED TO THEM, I CAN THEY
CAN I CAN EMAIL IT TO THEM AS
WELL.
OK, WELL IF THERE AREN'T ANY
OBJECTIONS, IS THERE ANYBODY
WHO THINKS THAT MORE
INFORMATION NEEDS TO BE IN THIS
TO GO ON THE WEBSITE?
IS THIS SUFFICIENT?
I THINK WHAT BONNIE JUST SAID
SHOULD BE AVAILABLE TO HELP
FILL OUT THE YEAH OR OR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS CAN COME IN
AND PICK UP AN APPLICATION OR
HOW THEY CAN GET AN APPLICATION
EITHER FROM YOU OR ONLINE OR
SOMETHING BUT SOME EXCELLENT
QUESTION AS TO INVITING PEOPLE
TO BE ABLE TO DO SO.
>> OK, I WANT TO ADD THAT AND I
SAY THAT FOR SOME OF OUR
CITIZENS WHO ARE HAVING
PROBLEMS LITERACY PROBLEMS AND
WE JUST HAD A BIG CONFERENCE ON
THE FACT OF THE LITERACY LEVELS
IN WASHTENAW COUNTY AND THE
NEED AND SO THIS WOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE
OF ASSISTANCE WHERE SOME
OF THESE PEOPLE ALSO.
>> OK, SO COMMISSIONER HARRIS,
I CAN ADD THAT IN THERE AS WELL
THAT IF YOU'RE UNSURE OR IF YOU
NEED HELP OR ASSISTANCE FILLING
OUT A COMPLAINT FORM, YOU CAN
COME TO FILL IT UP OR COMPLAINT
FORMS ARE AVAILABLE HERE OR BY
OR KNOW WHAT I ACTUALLY WE HAVE
A SECTION OF THAT ON OUR WEB
SITE.
SO WHAT I CAN DO IS I CAN JUST
EDIT THAT SECTION AND SAY OR IF
YOU PREFER TO FILL OUT A
COMPLAINT FORM IN PERSON.
YES.
CONTACT THE STAFF PLEASE.
YES, I CAN HAVE THAT ON THERE.
THANK YOU NOTE WEBSITE OK VERY
GOOD THANK.
IS IT APPROVED.
YEAH WHY DON'T YOU ADD IT SEND
IT OUT AND WE'LL APPROVE IT BY
EMAIL.
WONDERFUL.
>> OK PLEASE EVERYBODY RESPOND
TO THE EMAILS OK THAT IS ALL
THAT I HAVE AND NOW I'M GOING
TO ASK IF THERE IS IF THERE IS
ANY OLD BUSINESS CURRENTLY
THERE.
>> I'M SORRY I'M CURRENTLY
THERE IS NO OLD BUSINESS ON THE
AGENDA DESSAIX DOES ANY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY OLD
BUSINESS NO OLD BUSINESS ON TO
NEW BUSINESS AND WE'VE ALREADY
HAD THE TERM LIMIT DISCUSSION.
CORRECT.
SO REPORTS WE ARE GOING TO BE
BUT I WANT TO I WANT TO SAY
THIS IN TERMS OF NEW BUSINESS.
I HAVE BEEN IN TOUCH WITH THE
CO-CHAIR OF THE EAST LANSING
POLICE DEPARTMENT.
UM, OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
WE MET HER AT NACOLE AND HAD
HAD DINNER WITH THEM ONE
EVENING AND THEY ARE INTERESTED
IN PERHAPS SOME COLLABORATIONS.
THEY'RE LOOKING INTO WAYS FOR
THEIR COMMISSIONERS TO BE TO
GET TRAINING AND WE DO HAVE
SOME THINGS IN COMMON BOTH
BEING COLLEGE TOWNS EAST
LANSING AND ANN ARBOR.
AND SO I WOULD JUST SORT
OF LIKE THE COMMISSION TO LET
ME KNOW IT'S OK THAT THEY WOULD
BE INTERESTED IN SOME KIND
OF COLLABORATION WITH ANOTHER
COMMISSION OR TELL ME,
STEPHANIE, NO, LEAVE US ALONE.
DO YOU THINK YEAH, I THINK IT'S
A GOOD IDEA.
OK, OK.
>> WELL CONTINUE THE
DISCUSSIONS.
THERE'S NOTHING REALLY THAT HAS
BEEN PUT TOGETHER AT THIS POINT
BUT I THINK IT IS A GOOD A GOOD
IDEA FOR US TO TO BRANCH OUT A
LITTLE BIT, SEE WHAT OTHER
FOLKS AROUND THE STATE ARE
DOING.
OK, NOW WE ARE TO OUR COMMITTEE
REPORTS AND I KNOW COMMISSIONER
GREEN IS THE ONLY ONE HERE FROM
THE POLICY COMMITTEE AND I'M
GOING TO ASK HIM IF HE DOESN'T
HAVE A REPORT TO I HAD ASKED
COMMISSIONER GREENE BECAUSE HE
IS A LONG TIME ATTORNEY AND I
ASK HIM SOMETIME AGO WHETHER HE
WOULD BE WILLING TO HELP US
WITH THE INFORMATION MANAGERS
AND I BELIEVE HE HAS AGREED
YES.
THAT IS TRUE AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO THAT.
OK, SO WE'RE GOING TO MOVE HIM
UNLESS YOU WANT TO DO BOTH
COMMITTEE NO, WE'RE GOING TO
MOVE HIM TO THE INFORMATION
MANAGER.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE YOU CAN DO
ONE MORE ON ONE COMMITTEE.
YOU KNOW WE HAVE COMMISSIONER
FRANCIS HOLD IT DOWN THE
OUTREACH COMMAND AND SHE'S
DOING GREAT.
SO YOU CAN JOIN ONE MORE THAN
ONE COMMITTEE.
YOU KNOW, WE'RE ALL MAKING
THANK YOU FOR THAT BUT YOU
STILL DON'T WANT TO DO IT SO
I'M NOT SURE WHEN OUR NEXT
INFORMATION MANAGERS MEETING
WILL BE BUT WE'VE GOT THE
TRAINING PRETTY MUCH DOWN AND I
KNOW IT WON'T TAKE BUT A MINUTE
TO UNDERSTAND WHAT WE DO WITH
THIS BACKGROUND IN READING
POLICE REPORTS FOR YEARS,
DECADES.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT
TRAINING COMMITTEE YOU GUYS
HAVE BEEN TRAINING COME ON.
>> WE HAVE A TRAINING THAT'S
ABOUT IT, RIGHT?
WE HAVE A TRAINING MEETING.
UH HUH.
WHAT IS YOUR MEETING?
>> I BELIEVE THE TRAINING
COMMITTEE MEETING IS GOING TO
BE APRIL FOUR.
YES, I BELIEVE THAT WAS THE
DATE.
THAT'S WHEN WE MEET WITH A PD.
THAT'S WHEN YOU MEET WITH PD,
RIGHT?
YES.
AND AND SO WE'RE GOING TO BE
HOPEFULLY TALKING WITH
LIEUTENANT DUNLAP AND OTHERS
ABOUT WHAT TRAINING THE
OFFICERS ARE CURRENT CURRENTLY
RECEIVING AND OUR GUIDE AT THIS
POINT IS IS NACOLE.
BUT THERE'S ALSO SOME SOME
OTHER ORGANIZATIONS WHO DO TALK
ABOUT THE TRAINING.
I THINK WHEN WE WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT TRAINING PREVIOUSLY WE
WERE PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN
AS IT'S REFLECTED IN OUR ANNUAL
REPORT WE WERE INTERESTED IN
DIVERSITY TRAINING AND AND IN I
GOT TO LOOK AT THE REPORT.
YES.
THAT'S IT IN DE-ESCALATION AND
SO WE'LL SEE WHAT WHAT'S GOING
ON AND AND WHAT WE THINK ABOUT
THAT.
SO THAT MEETING IS COMING UP
APRIL 4TH AT ANY OF THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS WISH TO TO COME
UM, YOU ARE CERTAINLY WELCOME
TO JOIN US AND THAT'S GOING TO
BE DOWNSTAIRS AND UH YEAH THE
FIRST FLOOR COURTROOM AT TEN
THIRTY EIGHT TEN THIRTY A.M. SO
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO JOIN US IF
YOU'D LIKE ONE DAY THAT THE
APRIL THE THURSDAY APRIL 4TH
NEXT THURSDAY OUTREACH
COMMITTEE COMMISSIONER FRANCIS
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> UM SO WE ARE CURRENTLY
AWAITING RESPONSE FROM THE ANN
ARBOR LIBRARY WESTGATE BRANCH
TO SEE IF THEY WOULD BE ABLE TO
HOST OUR PUBLIC FORUM NEXT
MONTH.
SO UM, I'M WAITING ON THAT.
IF NOT, YOU KNOW, WE CAN REACH
OUT TO ONE OF THE OTHER
BRANCHES.
WHAT WHAT WE LIKE ABOUT THIS IS
THEY DO HAVE PLENTY
OF CONFERENCE ROOM SPACE AND
IT'S ON THE BUS LINE WHICH
WOULD HOPEFULLY PROMOTE
ATTENDANCE.
SO I WILL LET YOU ALL KNOW VIA
EMAIL ONCE I DO HEAR BACK AND
YOU KNOW, MOVING FORWARD, UM,
ONE OF THE INITIATIVES THAT WE
I HAVE HAD ON OUR PLATE FROM
WHEN I STARTED WAS TO GET OUR
SOCIAL MEDIA PRESENCE TO BUILD
IT UP A BIT MORE.
WE NEED TO START ESPECIALLY IF
WE HAVE VALUABLE OFFICE HOURS,
OPEN OFFICE HOURS FOR THE
COMMUNITY.
WE REALLY WANT TO BE DIRECTING
AND REDIRECTING TRAFFIC TO OUR
WEBSITE BUT WE CAN ALSO POST
SOME OF THIS INFORMATION ON
SOCIAL MEDIA AS WELL WHICH
WOULD REACH A WIDER AUDIENCE
THAN HOPEFULLY GO FURTHER TO
SERVING THE COMMUNITY SO THAT
WILL BE MY GOAL FOR THE NEXT
MONTH UNTIL WE MEET AGAIN.
THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW, I WAS WE HAVE OUR
EMAIL LIST OF CONTACTS AND I
WAS TEMPTED TO ASK MR. CUMMINS
YESTERDAY TO SEND OUT TO SAVE
THE DAY.
BUT IT OCCURRED TO ME IF WE
COULDN'T FIND A VENUE BECAUSE
WE'RE SCHEDULED TO MEET IN THE
BASEMENT IN APRIL AND WE
COULDN'T GET FOUR OR FIVE
PEOPLE DOWN THERE SO THAT
COULDN'T WORK.
ARE WE PRETTY CONFIDENT WE CAN
FIND SOME PLACE AND THEN WE'LL
SEND OUT A SAVE THE DATE AND
THEN AN INVITATION WITH THE
WITH THE VENUE ON I CAN LET YOU
KNOW TOMORROW I WILL BE MUCH
MORE CONFIDENT TOMORROW.
OK, VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
CAN I ASK A QUESTION ABOUT
NOTIFICATION AND WHO'S ON THE
LIST?
I'M CONCERNED WITH HOW
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ARE GOING TO
KNOW OF THIS AND UNDERSTAND
WHAT IT IS THAT WE'RE DOING AND
THE FACT THAT WE THAT OUR CHIEF
IS COMING TO MEET THEM AND TO
HEAR FROM THE COMMUNITY MEMBERS
ANYTHING AND EVERYTHING THAT'S
GOING ON IN THEIR HEADS.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY, HOW ARE
WE REACHING JUST THE ORDINARY
SORT OF ANN ARBOR AND
ESPECIALLY THE COMMUNITY THAT'S
MOST AFFECTED BY THE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT?
SO WE DO HAVE A LIST THAT WE
HAD PUT TOGETHER SOME TIME
.
SO IT'S A THAT'S A VERY GOOD
QUESTION AND I DID MAKE CONTACT
WITH THE INDIVIDUAL THAT YOU
SUGGESTED THROUGH ONE OF THE
SORORITIES WHO IS GOING TO BE
ABLE TO CONTACT OTHERS IN IN
THAT THAT THAT GROUP AND NOT
JUST HER GROUP BUT BUT OTHER
GROUPS.
>> UM, THE LAST TIME I SENT
SOMETHING OUT I SENT IT TO SOME
OF THE CHURCHES.
COMMISSIONER GREENE, HOW WOULD
YOU SAY IS BEST DO WE SEND
SOMETHING TO THE PASTOR
OF CHURCHES AROUND AND ASK THEM
TO MAKE AN ANNOUNCEMENT OR ASK
THEM TO PUT IT IN THE BULLETIN
CHURCH?
JUST FILL OUT BULLETINS AND WE
HAVE OTHER ORGANIZATIONS THAT
ARE ON OUR LIST AND I DON'T
KNOW IF ANYBODY HAS OTHER
SUGGESTIONS.
WE CERTAINLY WOULD WOULD TAKE
THEM AS TO HOW TO GET THE
INFORMATION OUT TO THE
COMMUNITY.
THAT'S PROBABLY THE BEST WAY TO
DO IT.
I CAN THINK OF A MILESTONE
ABOUT IN THE MINISTRY OF MINES
AS WELL AND I CAN TRY TO FEED
THEM SOME OF THAT INFORMATION
AS WELL.
SO THERE'S SOME AVENUES THAT WE
CAN TAKE ADVANTAGE OF .
OK, TO GET THE WORD OUT AND I'M
WILLING TO HELP DO THAT.
>> OK, COMMISSIONER BILL.
YEAH, I THINK SOCIAL MEDIA IS A
GREAT WAY AND ESPECIALLY WITH
ALL COMMUNITY CENTERS AND TO
ASK THEM TO SHARE OUT THEIR
SOCIAL MEDIA PLATFORMS AND WE
WOULD DO IT AT OUR ORGANIZATION
AND AND I CAN'T THINK OF OTHERS
WHO WOULD NOT.
SO IF WE GET THAT OUT EARLY
ENOUGH, YOU KNOW, WE CAN SHARE
IT OUT THAT WAY.
IS THERE A LIST OF THOSE
ORGANIZATIONS YOU SERVICE
AGENCIES AND OTHERS?
>> YEAH, I CAN PROVIDE
DEFINITELY A LIST OF YOU
SERVING AGENCIES THAT WOULD BE
GREAT FOR AND COMMUNITY CENTERS
THAT WOULD BE GREAT FOR YOU TO
GET THAT I DON'T KNOW DENHA HOW
DO YOU WANT TO DO IT?
WE WANT THE THE OUTREACH
COMMITTEE TO BECAUSE I KNOW
NOTHING ABOUT SOCIAL MEDIA SO
IF YOU WANT TO DO IT IF YOU
WANT TO COME IN IS VERY GOOD
WITH IT.
>> YEAH.
SO KNOW I'M HAPPY TO HELP IF
THERE ARE ORGANIZATIONS GROUPS
ASSOCIATED THAT YOU KNOW THAT
COULD GO ON OUR EMAIL LIST I'M
HAPPY TO ADD THEM IF YOU GUYS
COULD JUST SEND ME THEIR EMAILS
OR THEIR CONTACT INFORMATION
I'M HAPPY TO I AND THEN THEY'LL
BE GETTING OUR COMMUNITY
ANNOUNCEMENT AND UPDATE.
ANOTHER GOOD POINT ON SOCIAL
MEDIA IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE,
YOU KNOW.
>> THANK YOU.
YEAH I THINK A COLLABORATION AT
TIMES WOULD BE VERY HELPFUL
BECAUSE I HAVE I HAVE NO
PRESENCE ONLINE.
I MEAN I HAVE IT BUT IT'S NOT
INTERESTING SO I WOULD VALUE
THAT ALSO JUST TO REFERENCE
BACK TO THE LAST MEETING WE ARE
DISCUSSING IT WE'RE NOT THERE
YET BUT WE'RE DISCUSSING DOING
A SATURDAY AT THE MARKET FOR
COMMISSIONERS'.
YOU KNOW, WE WOULD TAKE TURNS
ESSENTIALLY AT A AT A BOOTH AND
BE OUT THERE AND MEET PEOPLE
AND ONE OF OUR OTHER GOALS IS
TO GET SOME PROMOTIONAL
MATERIALS PRINTED UP.
SO IN THIS CASE WE COULD HAVE
EITHER A REPORT OR FLIERS AND
GO INTO PUBLIC PLACES AND YOU
KNOW, COMMUNITY CENTERS AND
LEAVE BEHIND, UM, SOME
INFORMATION JUST ABOUT OUR
REGULAR MEETINGS, OUR SPECIAL
PUBLIC FORUMS.
>> UM, AND THIS WOULD BE
HELPFUL FOR FOLKS WHO DON'T
HAVE ACCESS TO DIGITAL
TECHNOLOGY OR IT'S JUST YOU
KNOW, NOT AS THEY'RE NOT AS
COMFORTABLE WITH IT.
SO I THINK, YOU KNOW, WORD
OF MOUTH AND ENGAGING OUR OWN
PERSONAL NETWORKS, OUR OWN
COMMUNITY NETWORKS IS GOING TO
BE HUGE ALSO YOU THINKING
OUTSIDE OF JUST OUR OWN
PERSONAL NETWORKS I KNOW YOU
KNOW SENIOR CENTERS AND
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE THOSE WOULD
ALSO VALUE THE INFORMATION.
MAURITIUS IS ONE THAT I WOULD
DEFINITELY WANT TO DROP OFF
SOME INFORMATION AT THAT
LAWYERS.
>> OK, UM SO YOU KNOW, IT IS A
CHALLENGE THIS IS A CHALLENGE
GETTING THE WORD OUT AND I
THINK THE BEST COURSE OF ACTION
IS JUST A DIVERSE APPROACH TO
PRINT WORD OF MOUTH WEB UM AND
THEN HAVING SOME TIME TO
INTERFACE OUTSIDE OF OUR PUBLIC
FORUMS KEEP DOING OUR PUBLIC
FORUMS BUT THEN POSSIBLY, YOU
KNOW, GO TO THE MARKET ON A
SATURDAY, HAVE OUR MATERIALS
MEET PEOPLE, TAKE QUESTIONS,
REDIRECTS TO WHEREVER WE HAVE
THE MOST INFORMATION VISIT THE
WEBSITE OR SOCIAL MEDIA
PLATFORMS.
UM AND AND YOU KNOW, I BELIEVE
THAT'S HOW THE BEST WAY TO MOVE
FORWARD AND I'M APPRECIATION
AND I'M HAPPY TO GET ANY HELP
THAT I CAN AND ANY SUGGESTIONS
I'M OPEN TO SO WELL IT'S
GETTING IT'S GETTING WARM.
>> I'M GOING TO ASK
COMMISSIONER NEIL YOU'RE DOWN
AT THAT MARKET AND I GO DOWN
PERIOD.
I'M HAPPY TO SIT TO SIT AT A
BOOTH AND SO CAN YOU MAKE THAT
CONTACT TO SEE WHAT WE HAVE TO
DO TO GET A BOOTH?
>> I WILL DO SO.
THANK YOU ALL THIS VERY GOOD.
>> UM, COUNSEL SUGGESTED I JUST
HAVE SOME SUGGESTIONS PLEASE.
ALL RIGHT.
SO LIKE WE'VE MENTIONED SOCIAL
SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS BUT
COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH YOU
KNOW, IF WE HAVE FIRES UM
PRINTED MATERIAL DEPARTMENT
OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES IN
YPSILANTI WHICH ALSO HAS
COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH CARE UM
IF I START CLUBHOUSE RIGHT AWAY
SO FOLKS THAT ARE IMPACTED THE
MOST UM THESE THESE ARE SOME
OF THE ORGANIZATIONS AND PLACES
THAT WE WANT TO COMMUNICATE GET
PEOPLE AND GET THEIR ATTENTION
.
YES.
SO JUST IF CAN YOU REPEAT THOSE
NAMES AGAIN OR YOU KNOW
COMMUNITIES RIGHT OVER HERE ON
FOURTH STREET DHHS AND PROSPEKT
WHICH ALSO HAS COMMUNITY MENTAL
HEALTH A AWAY UM FIRST OUR
CLUBHOUSE WHICH IS LOCATED IN
YPSILANTI USED TO BE HERE IN
ANN ARBOR UM THE UH COMMUNITY
LET'S CALL IT NOW THEY CHANGE
IT CENTER FOR AN INDEPENDENT
LIVING WHICH IS NOW A
DISABILITY NETWORK.
>> UM AND ARE YOU SUGGESTING
FIVE YEARS HERE?
YES.
PRETTY GOOD OLD SCHOOL.
YEAH.
WAY OF GETTING IN FRONT
OF PEOPLE TO PROMOTE THIS
MEETING THAT ARE THE COMMUNITY
MEETING THAT THE CHIEF WILL BE.
SO IF YOU ALSO ADD TO THE EMAIL
LIST.
>> YES, OK, SO WE ARE LOOKING
INTO THE FARMERS MARKET THAT A
GREAT IDEA AND IT'S GETTING
WARM ENOUGH WHERE WE WE CATCH
PEOPLE OUT THERE.
YOU PROBABLY COULD ALSO BE TRUE
TO FILLING STATION WHICH IS A
RESTAURANT COULD LEAVE SOME
FLIERS THERE OR JUST SOME
PLACES YOU KNOW.
>> WELL WHAT WE CAN WE CAN GET
PRINTED FLIERS JUST AS SOON AS
WE GET THE I WOULDN'T WANT TO
PRINT UP THE FLIERS WITHOUT THE
VENUE ON IT BUT WE CAN GET OUT
MAYBE EMAIL SAVE THE DAY BUT
WE'LL SEE IF WE CAN FIND OUT
TOMORROW FOR SURE.
AND ALSO WASHTENAW COMMUNITY
COLLEGE AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
CENTER AT WCC.
>> IT'S ANOTHER PLACE GOOD.
THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR INPUT.
MS.
UM, I THINK I WOULD ALSO
RECOMMEND YOU DO SOME OUTREACH
TO THE SCHOOLS.
OUR HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS HAVE
THINGS TO SAY AND THEY WOULD
LIKE TO HEAR THIS AS WELL THEIR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS I WOULD REACH
OUT TO EITHER COUNSELORS OR
PRINCIPALS OF OUR MAJOR HIGH
SCHOOLS HERE IN ARBOR.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE VERY
HELPFUL FOR THEM TO BE ABLE TO
GIVE THEIR STUDENTS.
IT COULD BE SOMETHING THAT GOES
ON THE WALL IN THE COUNSELING
OFFICE AS SIMPLE AS THAT TO LET
THE STUDENTS KNOW I'M LETTING
THE PRINCIPALS KNOW MAYBE THEY
MAKE AN ANNOUNCEMENT DURING
THEIR MORNING ANNOUNCEMENTS
BEFORE THIS NEXT MEETING.
STUDENTS ARE OUR FUTURE SO
LET'S MAKE SURE THEY KNOW ABOUT
THIS AS WELL.
>> MM HMM.
I KNOW YOU'RE VERY FAMILIAR,
COMMISSIONER LIKE AND WITH THE
WITH THE SYSTEM THE EDUCATIONAL
SYSTEM.
DO YOU HAVE CONTACTS WHERE
WHERE YOU CAN IT'S BEEN A
WHILE.
I KNOW.
YES I DO.
I WOULD ALSO RECOMMEND YOU
CONTACT THE INTERMEDIATE SCHOOL
DISTRICT AND I HELP YOU THAT WE
HAVE THE ISED HAS MANY YOUNG
ADULT PROGRAMS THROUGHOUT IN
ARBOR FOR PEOPLE WITH
DISABILITIES OVER THE AGE OF 18
THROUGH THE AGE OF 26 AND
THEY'RE ALL OVER THE CITY.
>> SOME OF THEM MAY HAVE SOME
THINGS TO SAY.
SO WOULD YOU ALSO HAVE SOME UM
PAPER FLIERS PAPER TO HAND OUT
OR EMAIL CONTACTS?
UM, ONCE WE HAVE A CONTEXT
OF THE PEOPLE THEY COULD
CERTAINLY PRINT THINGS OUT.
IF YOU SEND THEM SOMETHING THEN
PRINT IT OUT.
OK, SO EMAIL WOULD BE OK.
>> OK THANK YOU ALL.
YEAH WE NEED WE NEED ALL HANDS
ON DECK FOR THIS TO GET OUT TO
MORE PLACES.
THE NEW WAS ON AND THEN UM
MICHIGAN WORKS AS ONE.
ALL RIGHT VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
UM DO WE HAVE A REPORT FROM THE
INFORMATION MANAGERS COMMITTEE.
>> YES
UM WHAT WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW IS THEY COMPLETED THE
COMPLAINTS OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE OF THEM ABOUT HALF DONE
INTO TWENTY TWENTY ONE TWENTY
TWENTY TWO ARE GOING TO SHARE
AND FINISH THAT AND THE ONLY
ONE THAT PROBABLY REQUIRES MORE
WORK IS TWENTY TWO AND THIS IS
THE BEGINNING OF OUR COMMISSION
AND AT THAT TIME THINGS WERE
NOT CLEAR AND SO WE HAVE TO
REVISIT THE COMPLAINTS
OF TWENTY TWENTY AND THAT WOULD
PROBABLY TAKE THE MOST TIME SO
I'M GIVING IT TO THE BACK
BURNER TO FINISH WHAT WE HAVE
AND THEN MOVE ON FORWARD SO DO
WE KNOW HOW MANY WE HAVE SO FAR
FOR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR I THINK
THAT MAY BE TOO CURRENTLY I
LAST I CHECKED THERE WERE TWO
COMPLAINTS OK UM I WOULD EXPECT
THAT UH WELL THE NUMBER WOULD
GO UP.
OH SURE YEAH.
BUT YOU KNOW AND THERE MAY BE
MORE THAT WE JUST DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING ON YET BUT OK OK AND
WE WANT TO WELCOME COMMISSIONER
GREENE TO THE INFORMATION
MANAGERS.
UH COMMITTEE AND WE WILL GET
WITH YOU IT WON'T TAKE A MINUTE
TO WORK TO GET YOU UP TO SPEED.
>> THANK YOU.
NOW A QUESTION THAT I DID HAVE
I AM I AM I USING THE RIGHT
TERM FOR OUR COMPLAINT LOG
WHERE IT HAS THE NOT NOBODY'S
NAME BUT WHAT THE COMPLAINT
WAS, WHAT THE DEPARTMENT
DECIDED AND WHAT OUR REVIEW WAS
WE WERE GOING TO INPUT OUR OUR
REVIEWS ONTO THE SAME DOCUMENT.
>> I THINK WHAT WE HAVE IS YES,
WE HAVE THE LOG FOR THE ALL THE
COMPLAINTS RIGHT.
AND THE UH THE INVESTIGATION
FROM THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
THEIR DISPOSITION.
RIGHT.
UM BOSUN'S ARE COMING LIKE IN
ONE BIG FILE.
RIGHT FOR ALL THE COMPLAINTS
NOW WHAT WE HAVE ALSO FOR EACH
COMPLAINT WE HAVE A SEPARATE
INVESTIGATION.
THE COMPLAINT THE IF THERE WERE
VIDEOS AND WHERE THEY SENT TO
WHO REVIEWED THEM AND ALSO WITH
THAT WILL BE THE REPORT RIGHT.
OF THAT COMPLAINT SO SO FOR
EACH CASE IF YOU LOOK AT ANY
OF THE CASES, WE WILL FIND ALL
THOSE MATERIALS.
>> RIGHT.
BUT BUT WASN'T THERE MISS
CUMMINGS, WHAT AM I TALKING
ABOUT THAT HAS EVERYTHING HAS
THE NUMBERS AND THE COMPLAINT
AND EVERYTHING ON ONE SHEET THE
PC LOG AND THAT'S WHERE WE WHAT
WE ARE SUPPOSED TO BE INPUTTING
OURS AS WELL.
THERE'S A PROBLEM FOR THAT.
YES.
YOUR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR OUR
RECOMMENDATION THAT'S IN THE PC
LOG AND SO I GUESS THE QUESTION
THAT I HAVE WHILE WE CAN WE CAN
TALK ABOUT IT OUR NEXT AT OUR
NEXT MEETING BUT OK, WELL THE
QUESTION HAS TO DO WITH AT ONE
POINT IT WAS MY UNDERSTANDING
THAT MISS COMMENTS COULD JUST
INPUT ONCE WE TURN IN A REPORT
OF OUR RECOMMENDATION THAT MISS
COMMUNIST'S COULD TAKE THAT AND
INPUT IT ONTO THE PC LAW SO
THAT'S COMPLETE.
YEAH, THAT'S THERE.
THAT IS DONE.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S THAT'S ALL I NEEDED TO
KNOW.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE NOW HAVE TIME FOR THE CITY
COUNCIL HARRISON, THE ONLY
THING THAT I REALLY HAVE RIGHT
NOW TO UPDATE IS THAT LIKE I
MENTIONED BEFORE, WE ARE STILL
IN OUR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
DIAMOND EQUALITY ORDINANCE.
AND RECENTLY THE INSTITUTE
OF JUSTICE REACHED OUT TO ME TO
OFFER AND THAT IS TO BASICALLY
OFFER TO ASSIST US WITH THE
IMPLEMENTATION.
AND I ACTUALLY I WONDER IF I
CAN LOOK OVER AT THE CHIEF
BECAUSE I HAVE A QUESTION FOR
HIM.
HE MAY WANT TO SPEAK ON
SOMETHING HE SHARED WITH US.
I DON'T WANT TO PUT YOU ON THE
SPOT BUT I THINK IT'S OKAY TO
TALK ABOUT THIS.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE'VE
TALKED ABOUT IN TERMS OF THE
DRIVE EQUALITY ORDINANCE IS
THAT IT'S IMPORTANT FOR PEOPLE
TO UNDERSTAND THE 10 SECONDARY
TRAFFIC STOPS THAT UH ARE PART
OF THE ORDINANCE THAT WHEN WE
HAVE INDIVIDUALS THAT DON'T
WHAT I'M FINDING OUT IS EITHER
PEOPLE DON'T KNOW ABOUT IT OR
IF THEY IF THEY HAVE HEARD
ABOUT IT, THEY DON'T KNOW
EXACTLY WHAT THE 10 STEPS ARE,
THE SECONDARY TRAFFIC
VIOLATIONS.
SO YOU KNOW, IT'S GOOD FOR US
TO BE PEOPLE TO KNOW SO THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ANY UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES.
SO, UM, WHAT I TALK WITH
PHILADELPHIA ABOUT IS ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT THEY DID WAS
THEY HAD CARDS PRINTED OUT THAT
LISTED THERE EIGHT STOPS THE
SECONDARY TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS
AND SO THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT
I WANTED TO HAPPEN HERE SO THAT
AS WE'RE OUT AND ABOUT AND
WE'RE, YOU KNOW, COMMUNICATING
WITH THE PUBLIC OR IF WE'RE
REPRESENTING A PARK, YOU KNOW,
AT AN EVENT OR ALL THESE THINGS
THAT GO ON IN THE COMMUNITY,
IT'S IMPORTANT FOR US TO BE
HANDING THESE OUT SO THAT FOLKS
KNOW WHAT THE 10 STEPS ARE AND
I THINK IT'S OK FOR ME.
>> IS IT OKAY FOR ME TO ASK
ABOUT THIS SO SO, SO CHEAP .
ANDERSON SHARED THAT BELIEVE
HE'S WORKING ON A FLIER MAYBE.
ALL RIGHT, LET'S SEE.
OK, I THOUGHT IT WAS SAFE FOR
ME TO BRING THIS UP.
SO DID YOU WANT TO SHARE YOUR
THOUGHTS OR UM COME ON UP AND
SHARE WITH US WHAT YES.
>> OR JUST BRIEFLY I HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BE PART OF A A
COMMUNITY MEETING OR A
CONFERENCE CALL WITH RESPECT TO
BEING LEADERS THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTRY THAT TALKED ABOUT SOME
OF THE THINGS THEY WERE DOING
IN ORDER TO ASSURE THAT THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS HAD
INFORMATION ON THE DRIVING
ORDINANCE SPECIFICALLY
PHILADELPHIA TO HAVE EIGHT
DRIVING AWARENESS AND OBVIOUSLY
WE HAVE 10 AND SO ON AND
RECOMMENDED STRATEGIES WAS THAT
THEY GET SOME TYPE OF FLIER
THAT YOU MIGHT HAVE IN ORDER TO
ASSIST THE WAY THEY INTERNALIZE
THAT AND THE COMMUNICATION IS
THAT WE HAVE SOME TYPE OF THREE
BY FIVE CARD THAT WOULD HAVE
FIVE ON ONE SIDE, FIVE ON THE
OTHER IN ORDER TO HELP NOT ONLY
JUST A POLICE OFFICERS WHO
REALLY HAVE BEEN PREPARED AND
UNDERSTAND WHAT WE'RE DOING BUT
ACTUALLY THE COMMUNITY.
SO I HAD MEMBERS OF OUR STAFF
REACH OUT AND CREATE SOME
OF THOSE ITEMS THE THREE BY
FIVE IS NOW AND I ACTUALLY SAW
THEM THIS EVENING.
SO MANY OF THEM WERE COMPLETED
.
WE'RE JUST GETTING THEM CUT TO
SPECS AND SO WE WANTED TO MOVE
FORWARD TO MAKE SURE WE HAD
THAT AVAILABLE.
THANK YOU.
YES.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE WANT.
THAT'S BASICALLY THAT'S WHAT
YOU'RE DOING IN PHILADELPHIA.
SO HE JOINED CHIEF ANDERSON
JOINED A CONFERENCE CALL THAT
WE HAD WITH THE BEER INSTITUTE
OF JUSTICE AND TALKING ABOUT
IMPLEMENTATION AND THIS IS ONE
OF THE STRATEGIES AND ONE
OF THE TOOLS THAT'S BEING USED
IN PHILADELPHIA AND SO BEFORE
WE COULD EVEN MEET AND TALK
ABOUT IT, HE ALREADY STARTED
WORKING ON IT.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
SO THANK YEAH.
>> THAT'S WHAT WE'VE GOT I'M A
CALL COMMISSIONER HAINES AND
I'VE GOT A QUESTION I WAS JUST
GOING TO SAY, YOU KNOW, WE WE I
I WISH I HAD TALKED WITH THE
ACTING CHIEF BEFORE ABOUT
PUTTING SOMETHING ON THE POLICE
OFFICER'S BUSINESS CARD THAT
SAID IF YOU HAVE A COMPLIMENT
OR A COMPLAINT ABOUT A POLICE
INTERACTION TO HAVE IGGY POP
PUT ON THE CARD AND THAT MIGHT
HAVE A PERFECT OPPORTUNITY TO
PUT SOMETHING LIKE THAT ON
THEIR WITH OUR TELEPHONE NUMBER
AND A WAY TO GET IN TOUCH WITH
IGGY POP.
WHAT HAPPENED WITH THAT IS THAT
I WAS TOLD, YOU KNOW, WHEN NEW
OFFICERS AND THEY'RE ALWAYS
GETTING NEW CARDS PRINTED UP IF
SOMEBODY RUNS OUT OF THEIR
CARDS AND SO WE'D HAVE TO CATCH
THAT AT SOME POINT TO ADD THAT
INFORMATION ONTO ALL THE CARDS
THAT WERE GOING OUT SO THAT
NEXT TIME YOU PRINT THEM UP
MAYBE WE CAN WE CAN ADD
SOMETHING TO THAT.
>> BUT I'M SORRY, COMMISSIONER,
HE'S JUST A QUESTION FOR YOU,
CHIEF ANDERSON.
YES, WELL, THE CARDS THAT
YOU'RE MENTIONING YES.
>> THEY ARE AVAILABLE WELL THEY
STILL HAVE TO KEY CARD BUT WE
ACTUALLY WE DO HAVE THE PRINTS
READY SO IT'S GOING TO TAKE A
LITTLE BIT OF TIME TO MAKE SURE
THEY'RE MEETING THEM.
SO COULD THOSE CARDS BE
AVAILABLE FOR OUR APRIL TWENTY
THIRD MEETING WITH THE
COMMUNITY AND WE HAVE BEEN I
THINK WE CAN GENERALLY SPEAKING
I JUST STARTED WORKING ON THIS
SO I KIND OF LIKE TO SPEAK TO
MY STAFF IN ORDER TO MAKE SURE
THAT THEY'RE AWARE OF WHAT
WE'RE DOING.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
WE HAVE PRESIDENT.
BUT I THINK THAT'S A GREAT
IDEA.
I MEAN IT'S NOT ANYTHING I MEAN
IT'S ALREADY POSTED WE'VE BEEN
IN A MEDIA OBVIOUSLY WE KNOW
WHAT WE'RE DOING AND WHERE
WE'RE GOING WITH RESPECT TO THE
TO THE ORDINANCE AND THE
CHANGES WE'RE MAKING.
SO I THINK BY US COMMUNICATING
WITH THE COMMUNITY AND WITH OUR
POLICE OFFICERS WHO ARE
ACTUALLY DOING A REALLY GOOD
JOB UNDERSTANDING WHERE WE NEED
TO GO, I DON'T SEE ANY REASON
WHY WE CAN'T SHARE THAT WITH
WITH MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY.
>> RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MR. PHILLIPS.
THANK YOU.
DID YOU HAVE A QUESTION OR
MR. PHILLIPS.
COMMENT?
DID YOU HAVE A QUESTION OR
OK, GO.
COMMENT?
YEAH.
OK, GO.
SO YOU KNOW IT IT'S IMPORTANT
YEAH.
THAT LIKE YOU LIKE YOU
SO YOU KNOW IT IT'S IMPORTANT
MENTIONED THAT WE'RE SHARING
THAT LIKE YOU LIKE YOU
WIDELY WITH THE COMMUNITY AND
MENTIONED THAT WE'RE SHARING
WHEN I TALK ABOUT UNINTENDED
WIDELY WITH THE COMMUNITY AND
CONSEQUENCE THAT'S WHAT I MEAN
WHEN I TALK ABOUT UNINTENDED
BY THAT IS YOU KNOW, IF WE
CONSEQUENCE THAT'S WHAT I MEAN
HAVE, YOU KNOW, A YOUNG MAN
BY THAT IS YOU KNOW, IF WE
THAT HAS HEARD YOU KNOW THAT OH
HAVE, YOU KNOW, A YOUNG MAN
IN
ANN ARBOR YOU CAN'T BE
STOPPED FOR THIS OR THAT AND
YOU KNOW, THIS YOUNG MAN
THINKS, OH, YOU KNOW, I'VE GOT
A GREEN LIGHT OUT.
YOU KNOW, THEY MAY THINK THAT
THEY CAN'T GET STOPPED FOR ONE
LIKE THEIR FRONT LIGHT RIGHT.
ONE OF THEIR LIGHTS BEING OUT
AND THEY CAN BECAUSE IT'S THAT
PART OF THE ORDINANCE THEN THEY
GET STOPPED AND IF THEY MIGHT
ARGUE I DON'T KNOW THERE'S
THERE'S UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES
WHEN YOU TRY TO DO SOMETHING
DIFFERENT.
RIGHT.
SO IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT THAT
PEOPLE KNOW ABOUT THIS NO ONE
THEY KNOW ABOUT IT AND THEN
THAT THEY ARE FAMILIAR WITH
WHAT THE TEN STOPS ARE SO THAT
THEY'RE EDUCATED.
SO YEAH, KUDOS TO THE CHIEF
ANDERSON FOR LIKE JUMPING RIGHT
ON THIS.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
I WOULD SUGGEST THAT ALSO THE
OUTREACH WOULD BRING THOSE ONES
ON FRIDGE MAGNETS.
I DON'T KNOW WHY I LIKE THIS
BECAUSE YOU ON THE FRIEDGEN AND
ALSO PEOPLE LIKE TO COLLECT.
>> SO IT'S A GREAT IDEA FOR WE
WANT TO PRINT MAGNETS AND NOW
WE KNOW THE FIRST ROUND WILL BE
WELL WE CAN WE CAN IF YOU ALL
DECIDE THAT'S A GOOD WAY TO DO
IT WE CAN CERTAINLY HAVE THEM
PRINTED UP.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OUR PERSON HARRISON, ARE THERE
ANY COMMUNICATIONS?
NO COMMUNICATIONS BUT I THINK
FOR THE FOLKS IN THE OPEN USE
THERE WAS A COVERAGE THERE WAS
A REPORT ON THE ANNUAL REPORT.
I'M NOT SURE IF ANYONE HAD SEEN
IT OR NOT.
I DID NOT SAY THAT IT WAS
ACTUALLY IT WAS IN THE PAPER
THERE WERE ANOTHER COVERAGE
OF WELCOMING THE CHIEF ANDERSON
,THE ONLY THING OVER THERE
THAT WAS MISSING AND IT WAS AND
THE OCCASION WAS THE NEW CHIEF.
BUT THE MISSING PART WAS THERE
WAS NO MENTIONING OF ECHO PARK
IN THE REPORT WHICH I FELT WAS
A LITTLE BIT MISSING AND THAT
IF YOU READ THROUGH IT WE HAD A
REPORT WE DIDN'T SAY IT WAS
FROM THE REPORT WAS WAS FINE.
I THINK IT QUOTED YOU ALSO AND
THE REPORT OK AND I PROBABLY I
SAVED THE PAPER OK, I'LL BRING
IT NEXT TIME.
THE OTHER ISSUE IS IS THROUGH
YOU WHICH IS THE SOFTWARE THAT
MANY POLICE DEPARTMENTS ARE
USING.
IT'S BEING USED NOW BY THE
SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT WASHINGTON
COUNTY SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT AND
I PROBABLY MIGHT BE ABLE TO GET
IN TOUCH WITH THEM AND SEE WHAT
THEY ARE DOING WITH THAT
SOFTWARE AND WHAT TYPE
OF INDICATIONS AND USE THAT THE
ARE DEALING WITH.
SO I MIGHT HAVE SOME IDEA MAYBE
NEXT TIME WE MEET.
VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMUNICATIONS?
IF NOT, IS THERE ANY THING THAT
ANY OF THE COMMISSIONERS WISH
TO ADD AT THIS POINT AND I'M
GOING TO I DON'T WANT TO BE
WITH YOU.
OK THEN I'M GOING WE'RE GOING
TO WRAP UP TO SEE IF THERE'S
ANY PUBLIC COMMENT AT THE END
OF THAT MEETING.
>> YES, SIR.
PLEASE COME ON.
THANK YOU.
I WAS THE CALL THAT I HAD ON MY
PHONE SO I FORGIVE YOU FOR
LETTING YOU SPEAK NOW.
SO I HAVE THREE ISSUES THAT I
THINK THIS IS PERFECT THAT YOU
BROUGHT UP REVIEWING THE
BUSINESS CARD FOR THE AREA
PLEASE ON THE BACK VICTIMS
RIGHT ON THERE AND IT SAYS TO
APPLY OR IF YOU HAVE QUESTIONS
CONTACT PHONE NUMBER FIVE ONE
SEVEN THREE SEVEN THREE SEVEN
THREE SEVEN THREE.
THAT'S NO LONGER A VALID NUMBER
.
I HAD IT WITH THE POLICE
OFFICER BUT NOT THERE.
HE JUST LEFT AND SO I THINK IT
WE'RE DOING THE BUSINESS I
THINK HAVING A VALID NUMBER FOR
VICTIMS RIGHTS VICTIMS
ARTICULATE DR. HAD NO SEEN ON
THE BACK.
THE SECOND POINT IS POLICE
VEHICLE THIRTY TWO E LICENSE
PLATE ONE ONE X FIVE ONE
OBITUARY LEGALLY PARKS JUST
EAST AND STREET AT THE ENTRANCE
INTO LARKHAM CITY HALL.
YOU CAN ACTUALLY BE ON GOOGLE
EARTH BACK NOW AND SEE IT FOR
YOURSELF.
I ALSO MULTIPLE VIDEOS.
IT'S THE SAME ONE AND I THINK
EVERY HOME AND I TALK TO A
POLICE OFFICER ABOUT THIS THEY
INSTANTLY SAY POLICE EXEMPT
FROM TRAFFIC LAWS AND SO I
LOOKED AT MICHIGAN STATE LAW
AND SAID THAT OUR POLICIES AND
THE ONLY THING I CAN FIND OUT
TWO FIVE SEVEN SIX ZERO THREE
AND THAT SPECIFICALLY STATES
THAT POLICE OFFICERS ARE ONLY
EXEMPT FROM TRAFFIC LAWS WHEN
THEY'RE GOING TO AN ACTIVE
DUTY.
NOTHING ELSE SAYS THAT THEY'RE
ALLOWED TO BE EXEMPT SO EVERY
SINGLE POLICE OFFICER I'VE EVER
SPOKEN TO INSTANTLY SAYS THAT
THEY'RE EXEMPT FROM TRAFFIC
WHEN THEY'RE NOT ON ACTIVE
CALL.
I THINK WE MIGHT NEED TO HAVE A
STATION LIBRARY RETRAINING ON
WHAT ACTUALLY POLICE OFFICERS
ARE POLICE OFFICERS ARE EXEMPT
FROM TRAFFIC LAWS.
I MEAN I TRIED TO FILE A
COMPLAINT YESTERDAY WITH
CHRISTOPHER ALLEN WHO'S NUMBER
THREE ONE SIX AND HE DIRECTLY
SAID THAT THE CITY OF DENVER
HAS A POLICY THAT BLATANTLY
BLATANTLY EXEMPTS POLICE
OFFICERS WITH TRAFFIC LAWS AND
I DON'T THINK THAT POLICY
EXISTS AND EVEN IF IT DID
EXIST, CITY POLICY IS IN NO
STATE LAW.
SO EVEN IF THE CITY THAT EVER
HAD SOME POLICY THAT GRANTED
THEIR POLICE OFFICERS AN
EXEMPTION FROM TRAFFIC LAWS, IT
DOESN'T SUPERSEDE IN SEATTLE
TWO FIVE SEVEN SIX ZERO THREE.
SO I JUST I WOULD LIKE TO ONE
HAVE FOUR POLICE OFFICERS
REPRESENT THE CITY AND NOT BE
LEGALLY PARKED CONSTANTLY
BECAUSE IT'S BLOCKING THE
INTERSECTION.
SO IT'S A BLIND INTERSECTION
DRAGGING POLICE ON THE SIDE
DOESN'T MAKE IT ANY REALLY MORE
VISIBLE.
IT'S ON GOOGLE EARTH AS WELL.
SO I THINK THAT'S KIND OF ALSO
SHAMEFUL TO HAVE ON GOOGLE
EARTH.
THE WORLD CAN SEE THAT THE
ENTIRE POLICE DEPARTMENT
ILLEGALLY PARKED IN FRONT
OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT AND
THIS IS JUST ONE LAST THING IF
IT WAS ILLEGAL AND SAFE PLACE
TO HAVE A PARKING SPOT, I'M
PRETTY SURE THE AREA OF THE
CITY THAT WOULD HAVE MADE IT A
PARKING SPOT BECAUSE WE NEED AS
MUCH PARKING AS POSSIBLE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
I THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR LETTING
ME SEE YOU GUYS.
>> THANK YOU.
WOULD YOU DO YOU WANT A
RESPONSE?
DO YOU WANT TO MAKE A FORMAL
COMPLAINT?
WE GET BACK TO YOU AFTER THE
MEETING IF YOU COME AND SEE US
I WANT TO BE HONEST I TRIED TO
MAKE FORMAL COMPLAINTS BEFORE
AND THE FIRST THING I DID I
ASKED TO SPEAK WITH SOMEONE AND
I WAS REFUSED AND DENIED THE
ACCESS TO SPEAK WITH SOMEONE
UNTIL AFTER MY CLOSED MY CASE
WAS CLOSED.
THEN THEY'LL SPEAK WITH ME BUT
THEY WON'T SAY YOU WON'T DO
ANYTHING.
AND SO I DON'T THINK REALLY
FILING A COMPLAINT DOES
ANYTHING WHEN IF THE ISSUE IS
WITH THE CITY, THE COMMITTEES
ESPECIALLY ALSO THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMITTEE, THEY REFER TO
THE CITY ATTORNEYS AT ALL TIME
AND SO THEY'LL SIDE WITH THAT.
AND SO EVENTUALLY YOU WILL SAY
THAT YOUR MEDIATORS BUT THEN
ALL THE MEDIATOR IS SAY THAT
THERE IS ENOUGH INFORMATION FOR
ME TO MAKE BLATANT ACCUSATION
AGAINST CITIZENS.
I'VE NEVER BEEN CHARGED WITH A
CRIME BUT I WAS TRESPASSING FOR
TRYING TO SPEAK AT A PUBLIC
MEETING.
I WAS GETTING INTO THAT.
I REALLY JUST WANTED TO TALK
ABOUT THE VALID AND VALID
NUMBER FOR THE HUMAN RIGHTS AND
POLICE VEHICLE FOR ME TO E
LICENSE PLATE ONE ONE NINE FIVE
ONE HABITUALLY ILLEGALLY UNSAFE
THE PARKS AND THE NO PARKING
ALWAYS RIGHT IN FRONT OF OUR
CITY HALL.
SO I WOULD NEVER STOP NOT ABOUT
THE LAWSUIT AND ALL THAT STUFF.
>> JUST ABOUT THE PHONE NUMBER.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK ANY OTHER PUBLIC COMMENT
.
>> IF NOT, I WANT TO THANK
EVERYONE FOR COMING OUT.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU
AGAIN APRIL.
TWENTY THIRD AT OUR PUBLIC
FORUM FOR THE CHIEF TO MEET
WITH YOU AND I WANT TO THANK
THE COMMISSIONER AND I'M GOING
TO ASK FOR A MOTION TO ADJOURN
SOON, SUPPORT ANY DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR I PASSED THE
MOTION CARRIES THE MEETING IS
ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU FOR AT WHAT I DO